So a lot was covered, let's dive even deeper.
If we have a look at our application, our app module,
you already see that the routing takes up some significant space in our app module.
So typically, if you have more than let's say two or three routes, you don't add it directly in the app
module,
instead you add a new file which is for the application as a whole, typically is called AppRoutingModule.
So the apps-routing.module.ts file now will hold a second module and I will have a whole module
course section about Angular modules later in the course. There, we will dive much deeper and learn how
you can define and use multiple modules, use them together,
this is a super easy use case here
so let's add it now. Here I will give this a name of AppRoutingModule because that is what it is and it
receives this @NgModule decorator.
So this is configured with a Javascript object being passed to it
and this will be a super simple module.
Now as mentioned, I will dive deeper into this later,
you can basically build your Angular app from multiple modules,
this simple module here will handle all our routing related tasks.
So I will cut all my routes, this appRoutes constant and add it in there, of course
now I need to make sure that all these imports here are added.
So make sure to add all the imports to all these components and also of course, here to
routes from the @angular/router package and you don't need to add declarations here because these components
already are declared in your app module and we will soon add the AppRoutingModule to this root module.
So no need to redeclare them,
this would actually even give you an error.
We also have to remove the router module from here, from our root module, therefore we can remove the imports
from the router package, make sure to import router module in your AppRoutingModule now, so to add
this import here and now we need to configure something in @NgModule.
We basically want to add imports again,
we had this in the app module too and in imports, we want to use this router module, use forRoot as before
and pass our routes array to it,
so just like we did before but that alone is not enough now because as I mentioned, we simply want to
use this app routing module to outsource our routes.
Therefore, we need to add our AppRoutingModule back to our main module
and for this, we need to add the exports array here
and I just can mention it again, we will dive deeper into modules later in the course. Exports simply tells
Angular, hey from this module,
if I were to add this module to the imports of another module, what should be accessible to this module
which imports this module?
And the one thing we want to make accessible is our router module.
Now here, you don't call forRoot because you did this here,
so in the first step you configure this router module, added your own routes to it,
now we simply export this configured router module and therefore in app module, we can now import our
own AppRoutingModule.
So here on the imports array,
we can simply add AppRoutingModule, make sure to add to import path here
and with that, we have the same setup as before but with a bit of a leaner app module and our routing
functionality outsourced in this separate module which is kind of a good practice to do to keep your
files organized and easy to read.
So same behavior as before, if we save this with ng serve still running, we should therefore see that
everything still works and this looks good to me
but again important to understand, now with a different set up, a bit more readable and a good practice
to implement
if your application grows more complex.